9/10/2021:

1) Establish a convention for saving the dataset's creation time
(i.e., when recordings start and end).  Right now, things are
expressed in terms of sample numbers offset from the start of
recording.  This is not enough if we want a concordance between H10
recordings and Libre Freestyle datapoints.

A high-precision "datestamp" should be preserved at the start of a
recording session, and then propagated through the nbf and .db
formats, perhaps through the 'properties' table.  This datestamp will
fix the start sample number to a specific date and time.

2) Using the convention defined in (1), implement an "auto-datestamp"
utility that will automatically datestamp a .db file (and its
corresponding data store) according to the filename.  This is a cheap
way of anchoring early glucose datasets to a specific date and time.
Once (3) is implemented, we won't need this utility since recordings
will automatically datestamp everything.

3) Design a master glucose database that can import data from the
downloadable LibreView .csv files.  Pandas is great for this, but it
ought to be set up as a database so that each measurement is unique,
with the datestamp as key.  We can also store some of these glucose
numbers within .db files, probably using a separate, optional
'glucose' table.  In contrast to the master glucose table, though, the
table in the .db file will store glucose levels using a samplenum,
which is an offset (in H10 sample units) from the start of the
recording.  This ensures that all times in the .db file are sample
numbers for the most frequently sampled quantity in the database.




OLD:

- Legends & labels for clustered entities:

vrasters
vwave
vscatter


- Alternative visualizations of clusters.
